--- 
wordpress_id: 266
layout: post
title: 24 - Day 4, Episode 12 Thoughts
wordpress_url: http://www.johng.co.uk/index.php/2005/03/09/24-day-4-episode-12-thoughts/
---
<strong>Warning! Stop reading if you want to avoid spoilers.</strong> It amazes me every week how 24 gets better and better. Looking at the episode as a self contained story rather than as part of the larger plot it portrayed an excellent tale of corporate cover ups, experimental uber weapons and the only man who can stop it all. The show had its own unique style this week with the plotting in the boardroom by the high ups in the evil organization, the green pulsing of the EMP and the highly effective throbbing lights as Jack works his way through the building. We also had some great scenes in CTU. Last week Driscol's skitzo daughter finally did what everyone was hoping and slit her wrists forcing her to leave CTU this episode, which I think was a very good move as she has been the worst director of the last 4 years. And my man Tony seems to be back into his element trying to climb to the top of the mountain again, but this maybe stifled by a certain returning character at the end of the show. On subject of which, I had a feeling that she would return ,after all they had laid the seeds as to  her whereabouts and what her relationship with Tony was the week following his comeback. Amazingly we are only half way through the season and it looks like the next 12 hours are going to be just as intense and exciting as the last 12.
