--- 
wordpress_id: 540
layout: post
title: Ultimate Fighter\Fight Finale\Night\Live Whatever....4!
wordpress_url: http://www.johng.co.uk/2006/11/14/341/
---
UFC had a half decent show on Saturday if not up to the standards set by the last three seasons of Ultimate Fighter finales. It's what we expected going in as they were coming off some of the lowest ratings and worst episodes they have had in a while. The few memorable things on the show were the crazy finish to the Pete Sell vs Scot Smith match and the terrible judges they have in Nevada

The Middleweight final ended in a split decision and some strange scoring. How any of the judges could have had either man winning every round is beyond me. It was not a clean sweep by either guy and to call it 30-27 is just wrong.

This was one of those fights where the current judging criteria isn't enough and needs to be made more specific. There were barely any take downs, barely any connecting punches but a whole lot of countering and maneuvering. Depending on if they thought Lytle's defensive success was more important then Serra's offensive failures could have thrown the fight either way.

Mike Goldberg hinted at a sudden death round (is that really the best term when they are trying to be mainstream) but of course we didn't get one. It's debatable if that would have helped or not because usually when a fight is heading for a decision there's no stopping it.

Anyone realise there was a Pride show on Sunday? No me neither and I have no interest in seeing it. They are really going to have to pull the stops out at the New Years and in February shows to stop the sinking ship.
